# Data-Communications-Project-1
Programming with Sockets




Programming Assignment 1: Programming with SocketsIn this assignment you will be asked to implement an HTTP client and server running a pared down version of HTTP/1.1. You will have to extend the client and server to make use of some of the application level headers we have studied in class. For those of you who already have socket programming experience, the basic part of this assignment will be fairly easy. I am therefore adding an extra credit component for those students who want a more challenging assignment. This project can be completed in either C/C++, Java, or other languages you prefer.What to Turn InWhen you hand in your programming assignment, you should include:A program listing containing in-line documentation. Uncommented code will be heavily penalized.A separate (typed) document of a page or so describing the overall program design, a verbal description of ``how it works'', and design tradeoffs considered and made. Also describe possible improvements and extensions to your program (and sketch how they might be made).A separate description of the test cases you ran on your program to convince yourself (and me) that it is indeed correct, and execution traces showing these testbeing run.Also describe anycases for which your program is known not to work correctly.The test casesyou should hand in are described below.The HTTP ClientYour client should take command line arguments specifying a server name or IP address, the port on which to contact the server, the method you use, and the path of the requested object on the server. You are going to implement two methods of HTTP:GETandPUTGETThe format of the command line ismyclient host port_number GET filenameThe basic client action should proceed as follows:1.Connect to the server via a connection-orientedsocket.2.Submit a valid HTTP/1.1GET request for the supplied URL.
GET /index.html HTTP/1.1(end with extra CR/LF)3.Read (from the socket) the server's response and display it as program output.Once you have this part of theclient working, you should demonstrate it with the following two test cases:4.Use it to get a file of your choosing from a "real" web server on the internet. For example,myclient www.cnn.com 80 GET index.html5.Use it to get a file from your own server program. For example, your server is running on pc1.cs.uml.edu, port number 5678.myclient pc1.cs.uml.edu 5678 GET index.htmlThis command would result in an HTTP GET request to pc1.cs.uml.edu for index.html on port 5678, and get the file index.html back to the client.PUTThe format of the command line ismyclient host port_number PUT filenameThe basic client action should proceed as follows:1.Connect to the server via a connection-orientedsocket.2.Submit a PUT request for the supplied file:PUT filenameextra CR/LF.(Once your server program receives such a request, it should expect to receive the file and save it to disk.)3.Send the file to the server.4.Wait for server's reply.
